Docs for automatic data locality and move features (#278)
ondat/documentation: docs/operations/automatic-data-locality.md

---
title: "Automatic data locality"
linkTitle: "Automatic data locality"
---

## Ondat volumes move with their pods

> Having an Ondat volume instance on the same node as the pod using it can bring some benifits to your application. Unfortunatly pods can move around over time leaving the Volume behind.

Reviewer: It would be good to specify what the benefits are, which is basically it's more performant

Reviewer: Typos:
```suggestion
Having an Ondat volume instance on the same node as the pod using it can bring some benefits to your application. Unfortunately pods can move around over time leaving the volume on a different node.
```

> Automatic-Data-Locality fights that, making the master Ondat volume instance follow the pod as it moves between cluster nodes.

Reviewer: I'd probably use `mitigate` instead of `fights. 

Also, I believe we should use "primary" instead of "master" for public documentation.

Author: Replaced

⚠️ A new volume instance is created and synced everytime the pod moves, if there's none already on the node where the pod moves to.

> ## Enablind the feature

Reviewer: Typo 
```suggestion
## Enabling the feature
```

> This feature is enabled per volume by adding the following label to an Ondat volume:

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning adding it to the PVC, instead of the "Ondat volume"

Author: Rewrote it to use PVC
